CS361 Questions: Week 1
These questions relate to Module(s) 1. Type your answers and submit them via
email to the TA by 5pm on Thursday, June 11.


Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?
     Security can refer to physical security, like home protection, or it can be related to informational security 
     at your job where you must protect valuable information that the company gives you. Financial security is also
     relevant to our everyday lives; we must protect our investments from thieves and our cash/bank account.
2. What do these have in common?
     They are require a type of authentication or a means of access. For example, for home security, to bypass the 
     alarm, you would require a 4 digit pass code to turn it off before the police is notified. For credit card/bank 
     account it is similiar, you have a pin code you must enter before transactions can occur; bank accounts have account
     numbers and passwords for online access and etc.
3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
     Yes, everyone has. Not every security measure is 100% adamant, and there will be instances of lax security.
4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
     There is probably a 65% my laptop is infected. You can run several spyware or virus scanners on your computer
     to be definitely sure. Or you can just use an eye ball test`and see if your computer is doing very slow things or
     acting slow and not processing the right programs in the intended way.
5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
     Always use a secure shell when doing access, enable anonymity in your browser and avoid clicking on random links
     that you do not know the destination of where they lead to. Having a very good firewall also is a very good way to 
     prevent intrusions. 
6. Do you think they are probably effective?
     They are good enough to eliminate small-medium threats (such as using McAfee or something similiar), but for lagre 
     scale attacks or worms/scripts you would just need to be able to avoid places on the internet or just not be connected
     to the internet to avoid these.
7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates
the case? Justify your answer.
     No, I do not think it overstates the case. The cyber security and cyber attack issues right now are mos definitely
     serious. Countries such as China are producing more and more attacks on the US everyday and I have no doubt in my mind 
     that if they wanted to, they could hi-jack any computer system/network in the US and do whatever they please.
8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
     Learning about computer security allows you to protect yourself from the dangers of the internet and cyberattacks
     and help aware others of the problem. Also you can help prevent people around you from becoming attacked by providing
     your own knowledge. As well as chasing a career in helping cover up and prevent the exploitation of these holes in net
     works of the US.


Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?
     Other factors would include human nature. Some people are born talented with bright minds and sometimes that mind
     is just biologically programmed to do bad things. You can't stop someone from doing something if it is all they know
     The problem with the security issue is that there are numerous factors that could be in play at any given time. Technology 
     is constantly evolving and changing daily and eventually someone/something will surpass its previous version and beat it or
     destroy it.
2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
     Debugging, test (specifically pen-testing) and finding all security holes starting from the compilation of the program 
     are as close as you can get. With so many components of a program, is it really hard to enumerate EVERY problem correctly
     or entirely. 
3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
     The defender must keep its private or public key or information from being decrypted or stolen whereas the attacker
     must work to take that information or find a way to break the encryption. The attacker will try to break the defenders
     defense, the defender just has to be able to not be broken with negligible advantage. 
4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why
not?
     I do agree. As long as your computer is connected to an internet network, there will always be threats of a cyber attack. But
     that solution is not realistic, therefore we have people working daily to ensure a better future in the cyber world where
     cyber attacks will diminish or do minimal or negligible damage.
5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
     By putting so much time and effort into security, it could also hinder or lessen the effectiveness of another area
     of the program/system that ordinarily wouldnt be affected. For example, if you put all the resources and energy into security, the time
     to market of the system will be enlongated and the launch will be delayed. 


Lecture 3
1. Define “risk”?
     Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact and information system by exploiting
     a particular vulnerability.
2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
     Yes, by reducing the amount of risks, you are directly reducing the amount of threats/damage to be done in the future. 
     Managing risk is a surefire way to prevent future problems in your software. 
3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?
     1. insurance - sometimes the cost of insurance is greater than the potential loss. 2. disallowed remote log in 
     3. placing a hazard sign before the hazardous area to prevent people from entering that area. 4. home security systems.
4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
     Using annualized loss expectancy to gather information on total loss to evaluate whether or not the risk is worthy of the
     fix is a very important fool for lots of companies. If the risk cost ot fix is way greater than the loss itself, then the 
     assessment is that the risk can be ignored (in some instances). It also calculates the expected value of any security expenditure.
5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment
     Technical, psychological, economical, financial.


Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
     The List on slide 3 are measures and tools that are used to apply to the list on slide 2 to help them.
2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important:
confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
     Confidentiality is the most important to me. I want to be able to keep my information safe and to myself only
     unless i want it to be shared. The would be no reason for security if Confidentiality didn't exist, everyone would
     know everyones information.
3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
     To categorize the data into understable sections or groups to help differentiate the data from other data to be able
     to see what to do with each data group.
4. Why might authorizations change over time?
     Authorizations change over time due to just to never have the same passwords or access codes for too long of a time.
     By changing them periodically it keeps the data protected. If an ex-emplyee has the passwords for something important,
     if the password is not changed from tiem to time, the ex-employee still has access to delicate and important information that
     he can access whenever he wants. By keeping the passwords and authentications fresh, it eliminates these risks.
5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
     Availability and relibility go hand in hand because data that is available 24/7, is also reliable. If a company goes down
     and the data they someone needs cannot be reached or accessed, the reliability rating goes down. That company is not reliable
     enough to keep its servers or information up for its customers/business partners. 
6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered
important?
     If you pay amazon.com for an item with YOUR account, it is assigned to you, this prevents amazon.com from saying they
     never recieved payment (non-repudiation) from YOUR accont for a specific service or item.


Lecture 5
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic
records.
4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”


Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects
of integrity and availability?
2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.


Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to
humans?
2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.
3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents?
Of humans?
4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.


Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects,
actions?
2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”


Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
particularly important?
4. State informally what the *-Property says.
5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?
6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?
7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.


Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.
Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could
you give to subjects and objects?
2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?


Lecture 12
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesn’t have to be fancy.)
2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?
3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.


Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.
2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”


Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)
3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel
#1?
4. In Covert Channel #2?
CS361 Questions: Week 1 6
5. In Covert Channel #3?
6. In Covert Channel #4?
7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?


Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth,
can potentially be very serious threats.
2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.


Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?
2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential
channel?
3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?

